Thank you very much, everyone. Thank you very much.
For that purpose, I'm going to be studying, contemplating and practicing, meditating on the
teachings of the great teacher Lama Shabkar.
In terms of those all, to get within and to activate our beauty, we will understand it.
With this, then we go to again.
I'm talking about the motivations. The motivation as you are in the application. Probably there are
always any teachings that I've said so many times, you know, that it's for renunciation talks.
And then also, the devotions of those are very, very crucial and important. Very crucial and
important.
The renunciation for renunciation, as I further did mention, "Gremas Papramud", "Gremas Dzangu-Kung
ra" is anchor of the practices. Anchor that.
And then this devotion is really warm for the sunlight of the practices. We blend the seeds on the
ground.
Now it's started developing and shooting out. Also, moisturizing. All those are like bodhicata, you
know.
All are blended. But even though everything is there, we need sunshine and understand.
This devotion is sunshine, the warmth. And that will bring, then all, perfect soil, perfect
condition, perfect situation.
Then is the brain growth of what we are expecting. If you continue taking care of that, it will
come.
And so that's what it really is. So therefore, it's again, it's a little bit about this for ren
unciation, as I've been talking that, that, in a way, reminded to all of us.
Of course, it is precious human growth. And had we discussed a little bit about that, we all have
the 18 endowments.
But sometimes we linger upon the 18 endowments 10 luxuries. Maybe 10 luxuries will be sometimes.
All in the text, in the sunrise, maybe is going down to the 17, 18, had to succeed, and the 15 and
so forth. Maybe going down.
If that is happening, we should reactivate that. Because we all have that.
Why this all happening? Due to the obstacles. Due to the distractions. Due to the emotions.
Due to the mundane activities, habitually active activities. Even we have the full of those lux
uries, still is standing.
In a way, robbers are robbing those things. Caring with them. Caring with them.
Therefore, we have that. Because the practice aid is not going down by someone else, they are going
to benefit you as too much.
Because we are going to practice aid. And that's what the greatest teacher of Buddha said.
Be, take responsibility yourself. Take responsibility yourself. That is really what it is.
So therefore, always like checking, checking all those things. That is our nose and our eyes. Mind
fulness.
Putting into the action and keeping up a world about our situation and circumstances, we keep up
that.
And always trying to do the best. That is known as practicing. Practicing. Trying to do the best.
We are the ordinary sentient beings of the name of us. Therefore, we can make mistakes.
We can be disturbed by the emotions, distractions, habitually badness, so on and so forth.
But if we can't continue to carry with that stream or that river, then our practice, identity of
practice is lost.
Therefore, it is responsible to check that. So we are always in tact of these eight endurance, all
the ten actions.
That which is important. With those told and then reflecting on the impermanent.
Impermanent is entirely everything is within impermanent.
So we have always don't reflect the impermanent. What is that? Then it becomes the permanent.
Permanent attitude deceives us. It really deceives us. It is very deceiving. It is very naive.
It is very low key. But it is deceiving.
It is asked to see that who will become the loser in a way. Our self. What will go into those?
Our spiritual growth. Our realization. Our development of the practice will become redundant or it
will be lost.
Therefore, we should always have this impermanent understanding. It is true. It is exactly. It is
true.
So therefore, great master, masters, earlier after, as I listed yesterday, and you all know that.
Also reflecting on the whole universe or the whole reason impermanent. What in the teaching said?
Meditate on the impermanent by reflecting on the universe is.
Universe is. So that means what meditate means you have to reflect on that. See that clearly as it
is.
So that means we are broadening our knowledge and understand this.
And it is a universal world. According Buddhism, where we are now, it is not here all the time. It
is not being all the time.
It came. It came. And those are in the teaching mechanism. It taught 20 eons to develop this full
function of this world.
20 eons is gradually developed. Gradually developed everything. First wind, then water, then earth,
then fire in the whole space.
It is always there. But then all the graduated there. And now we are here. But now it is a function
. And how long this world lasts? According Buddhism, it is going to stay another 20 eons.
20 eons going to stay. And then it starts, of course, leaving it from beginning times.
But even more, scientists, I don't know exactly how they say it, but how many things changed the
world when they are talking that.
Once upon a time, maybe all these continents took it. Many of those took it.
Then it is separated by the waves or the earthquakes. Then it is separated all over the sea. Asia,
Europe, and Africa, and South Africa, or America.
Australia, all those, in a way, divided. According to scientists, it still is a movement. It still
is changing.
I heard that. You know more better than that.
Sure is true. Buddhism says that there are two impermanents. One is called gross impermanent, and
the other is subtle impermanent.
Sudden impermanent is always there. Therefore, then you bring the gross impermanent, and such of
you are talking that impermanent.
That is not just came by itself. Suddenly, it is moving. It is coming.
Every second, every moment is shifting and changing and moving.
So, as scientists say, it is still moving. And still Himalayan is growing. I am sure you have heard
that.
The Himalayan is growing, and the Kaskar Mountains is still sinking. I don't know if it is true or
not.
Still, it is one of the oldest mountains on the Earth. And it is sinking.
That means it is changing. All that is changing.
And then according to Buddhism, then it is old, and a lot of teaching says golden eggs. And then,
through the evening.
And then, the Kankalaya, the evening, in two quarters of the golden eggs is last.
And then, only one quarter is left. And then, the teaching and the lectures. Those are in Buddhism.
All that is changing, one after another.
In the end, at the end of this universe, or according to Buddhism, at the end of the 20 years, this
very world is destroyed.
Completely destroyed by the fire, water, and wind. Completely destroyed.
There is a cold in the Buddha's teaching in Abhidhana. There is no inhabit with state. All gone.
Gone. Completely destroyed, destroyed.
Then, how long is this, where the Earth is? What is the world it is?
According to Buddhism, it will remain 20 eons, completely empty space. Nothing is existing.
Empty space. But then again, it will reform.
So, everything is 20 eons, 20 eons, 20 eons, 20 eons, and whole circle is 80 eons.
80 eons in the Buddha teaching, mentioned big eons. Those 20 eons, the small eons, or the medium e
ons, big eons, is 80 eons.
So, 80 eons, the full circle of the universe, the world, existing, disillusioned, and disappeared.
That will come.
So, this is how everything is really changing. And then we look at all these, what things, what we
see, how many things, even now changing.
The earthquakes, hurricanes, and sightings, and natural disasters, one or another.
So many things are changing and coming, and all that is happening.
Many scientists, now everyone is saying it is because of due to the calamity changes.
But it doesn't matter whatever, it is changing. It is really changing, so many things.
So, those are known as the reflections, the impermanence above the universe of the world, all that.
Then the reflection of the inhabitants of these beings.
Inhabited beings, that means living beings, and of course in here, living beings, on earth, how
many there?
According to Buddha's teaching, among six realms, we have two living beings, actively, or two
realms, actively engaging in this world, and which is the human and animals.
According to Buddha's teaching, all animals are not here, on this earth.
There are many other countries in the different world.
But who is sharing this, is by actively, or openly, by the animals and the human beings.
Now we think of the human beings, how many things are getting changed?
According to Buddha's teaching, ancient time, or golden age time, everyone is so happy, so excited,
so calm, so free.
There is no violence, no difficulty, no turbulence.
Then there is this difficulty, the turbulence, all the fighting, the curling, all that started,
because of the growing emotions.
It's all the stuff. At the same time, it becomes changed.
One after another, then another, all that changes.
And then also in science, they say, the evolutions.
At the beginning of time, those evolutions, whatever that is, it's changed.
Now what we are? And they look to the evolutions.
Those were the scientists. It's all changing, one after another.
And then we start thinking, oh, those civilized countries.
When people are talking about the minds, how civilized are those?
Once upon a time, they dominate them, and control them.
They are flourishing, prosperous. According to the historian, they are so, so prosperous, so
ordered.
And then at the landed city, I heard, there is something.
I mean, everyone you think this, that time, well, they have operated that time.
No one thinks this, doing that, or just going to say, period.
Like what they're after. And then not just only that, so many things we can see.
Even now, we go, those tourists go to visit, all the rooms, all the monuments.
They're not just the rooms and monuments at the time.
But all they're so, so flourishing, beautiful, so kind of upkeeping, living up there.
And now, it just becomes rooms, rooms.
So this is how all that happened. All this happened, happened.
And then, everything is changing, moving.
And even at the animal level, in Khetan, scientists said, dinosaurs.
And now, those are distinct. Gone.
Maybe, except, some say that alligators, many of them, and coconuts, and alligators.
And then there's in the Puerto Rico, they're called checking of a tree.
Checking of a tree, what is the name?
- Cookie. - What? - Cookie.
- Cookie. - Yeah, it could be cookie.
But checking of a tree is what?
- He won. - He won.
He won. I heard it.
Somehow, those are the, like, remaining of the, kind of like, dinosaurs.
Dinosaurs, okay.
So, but otherwise, majority dinosaurs, gone.
Only we see in the museum, kind of empty.
That, I mean, so many, really, things have changed.
Shift, this, and that. I mean, just all this.
That's just brilliant, you know, as reflecting in parliament, evolved, inhabited.
Then we think of the, in the teachings, that this third group of the reflecting,
is thinking of the noble beings.
Noble beings.
Noble beings such as, according to Buddhism, noble beings,
all those ancient great masters, realizing masters, including Buddha Shakyamuni,
such great beings, great power, great knowledge,
and transforming water into the fire, fire into the water,
walking in the sky, sleeping in the sky,
still sitting on the sky, going through the walls.
Walls, I mean, Buddha Shakyamuni, not just the Buddha Shakyamuni,
are others.
All those are others.
One after another, we read this story in the teaching.
How much they are, how powerful they are.
They have completely conquered the phenomenal systems, where things are,
changed, they shaped them.
And then they elect 80 masters, those six ornaments of the jabbudim,
so great scholars, masters.
And now, what we see, only life stories, stories.
And in it with, there's so many great masters came.
One after another, great beings.
And we started from the 8th century, during the time of the Gharapayama symbol,
25 disciples of the Gharapayama symbol.
Again, their spiritual power, realization power, changing, shifting things, elements,
flying the sky, sky and moving so fast from distance to distance.
And shifting things, stone in the gold, gold, water in the solid liquids.
I mean, so many things, even there, those are really,
there's some monasteries as treasures, as the object of treasure.
They kept those, all these things.
And then, in the Christianity, for example, Jesus Christ,
who transformed the bridge, one bridge, for so many bridges,
so many bridges, a small, small, small container of the building,
changed so many, for so, for so many peoples.
And also, he's renowned as son of God, God.
But, however, on the surface level, also he left.
It is all that you all know.
And then, not just all those great saints, one after another.
In the Hindu, there's so many great masters, great, those powerful,
that in that way, I say, of course, also in the new,
in the Sarma schools of Triveda Business.
There's so many great masters, really came, one after another,
just like Buddha, he came, such as great master Maradepa, Marpa,
and Gampobas, and then so forth, so forth.
Great master, I mean, all these things.
And then all those great thetans, masters, they're so powerful,
they're really actually so strong, high, high.
And when they did those whole beneficial activities,
how powerful they are, how smooth they are, how efficient they are.
But also, now is what it is, is only in the memories,
only on the books that we did, only on the world vendors.
Their physical is not here, as used to, as it was in the time it's gone.
So they are thinking of that.
That was all known as, in the teachings,
that reflecting the environment within holy beings,
or novel beings, you like that.
And then reflecting the environment with the powerful ones,
powerful beings over this earth.
So many powerful beings came, one after another,
every country has its role.
Really, one after another is so powerful.
Even hearing names could be scared, that kind of powerful.
Powerful and dominating, conquering, conquering every direction.
Conquering.
So majesty says, one after another, those powerful beings,
beings, every country has that.
We know that. You all know this.
And our bodies is just the only, again, historians.
Every, maybe a psalm of navy, maybe not all of that,
even in historians' stories, but psalm that we see in historians' stories.
So this is known as reflecting the empowerment of the noble holy beings.
They reflected the empowerment in a variety of ways.
A variety. A variety of things.
Thinking of the world, thinking of the beings,
thinking of everyone, thinking of ourselves,
for example, our family members, our friends, our neighbors,
our young friends of the early age, thinking of that.
Variety. And even our animals, our deer, like fat, fat animals.
And all that we think, variety level.
Level. Come on, thinking of that.
It's all now. Many, most of it is gone.
Most of it is disabled. It's only in our memories.
That's how the samsara, or the world is.
It's all in the ancient Buddha said.
Generally, the one, end of the world is dead.
End of the building up is going to fall.
End of the climbing up is going to fall.
End of gathering will be, end of the gathering will depart.
That is what it is too. It's all that.
And therefore, what great Thapasthani said,
we are gathering here as a short time, as a flea market.
So a flea market won't last long term. Flea market.
But when you come to the flea market, it's a short time.
Maybe one day or whatever that is.
And therefore, in particular, the family members and the friends,
don't argue, don't fight.
It's a short time in the flea market, having a good time.
And be nice to each other.
That's what the great Thapasthani said.
He's a disciple, a close disciple in Tengri region,
in west of it. West of it is.
He said, "Toget, it's just a gathering, a short time in a minute."
Therefore, be nice to each other, special to each other, kinder to each other,
understandable to each other.
And we do that. This is our practice.
We're not just doing, kind of, living of the practice behind doing something there.
Those are all our practices.
Really, that's nothing else. That's the practices.
So therefore, those are known as, then,
reflected in the environment, various ways, various ways.
And the next one is, then individually it comes on.
I move to the environment as everything, everything.
I'm in the environment.
What will be? Cause. Where will be?
What condition? Those all are known.
Nothing is short for us.
Except we're sure that we will live.
That is for sure.
What situation? What circumstances?
What conditions? What cause? All that is unknown.
And therefore, we should take these opportunities
and win those unsure, not sure.
Therefore, take these opportunities,
and in the teaching setting, practice.
Practice true good things that you will not feel regret, disappointed.
At the same time, you will give good impression to your family,
friend, others, good impression.
That is fulfilling of life, meaningful of life.
Life. That is everything.
Then, the next one is always reflecting the impermanence.
Don't forget that impermanence. Don't forget.
Every time, practice.
When you practice, begin to remember the impermanence.
And it's all, in the sense it's all impermanence.
We will get into it, or we will lie.
It's how wonderful.
Many people say that every day is a new day.
It's true. Every day is a new day.
Every day is fresh.
Every day is very fortunate.
We are here, still, we're going to do good things.
Enjoy, appreciate, take advantage of that time
as much as we can, develop our mind, our understanding, knowledge.
Knowledge is understanding what we develop.
According to Buddhism, that is going with us when we leave.
Whatever we develop with mind, it really goes.
Whatever we develop with physical order, even though it's so good,
but it's all going to stay behind.
But develop it with the mind. Anything that we can do, develop.
Of course, dharma, practice, love, kindness, compassion.
Those are inherited nature.
So that means it's reverting more.
And then that will go with us.
So therefore, if one of them is in the teaching,
said impermanence is so spiritual,
it helped in the beginning of time to activate our joyful effort.
In thinking of impermanence,
it will keep the joyful effort continually there.
And have the impermanence,
there we will become more humble, more simple,
more peaceful, more practical.
That really will come.
And finally, then it brings the prudential of our journey of the realization,
or journey of the practice.
Our great Master Maharaja Mahasaya in one of his songs said,
"First I came to the mountains thinking of the impermanence.
Then I practiced and meditated.
Now the attitude of the impermanence,
that attitude, the uncomfortable feeling of the impermanence
completely go, completely go.
Now he reached a fearless distance."
That is how impermanence well ejected that realization.
This thinking of the impermanence,
instead of impermanence,
impermanence is wrong understanding.
There is nothing easily impermanence.
It is just forever.
That impermanence attitude with sentient beings are devoted.
Everyone, for example, in this world,
they are really deceived by that, that.
And doing all the different things, different things,
and serving for the eagles, making so many troubles.
Maybe it has been a little bit of benefit for time, it was individual,
but it created so many difficult troubles for everyone.
Still the thing is good.
Then all that can happen.
Nothing is really going to last.
As we said about that,
it is all those powerful things that came in this world.
It is all God.
So those are really important impermanence.
Again, in this one hour, what we did,
we went through really about the precious human body and impermanence.
And now we go to the videos on the slide.
We go to our Zogchen teaching.